---
layout: post
title: "Grep"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## Grep 

Global Regular Expression Print

* grep
* egrep
* fgrep

## Examples

A sample file named `a_file`

	boot
	book
	booze
	machine
	boots
	bungie
	bark
	aardvark
	broken$tuff
	robots

Grep Syntax

* Single file: `grep "foo" file`
* Multiple files: `grep "foo" file1 file2`
* Wildcard files: `grep "foo" *` or `grep "foo" *.rb`
* Recursivly: `grep -R "foo" *` or `grep "foo" path/to/dir`

## Regular Expressions

Search for lines ending with 'e':

	$ grep "e$" a_file
	booze
	machine
	...

### Range

	[a-z]
	[0-9]
	[0-9A-Za-z] OR [[:alnum:]] OR \w
	\W is a synonym for [^[:alnum]]

### Empty String Operators

Match empty string at:

	^ begininng of line
	$ end of line
	\< begininng of word
	\> end of word
	\b edge of word
	\B not at the edge of a word

### Repetition Operators

	?      The preceding item is optional and matched at most once.
	*      The preceding item will be matched zero or more times.
	+      The preceding item will be matched one or more times.
	{n}    The preceding item is matched exactly n times.
	{n,}   The preceding item is matched n or more times.
	{n,m}  The preceding item is matched at least n	times,	but  not  more than m times.
	| 		 Infix: this OR that boots|cats


### Backrefereces
Find all lines that contain two of the same lowercase letters in succession.

	$ grep "\([a-z\)\1" a_file

## egrep: Extended Grep

Grep does not support some regex such as '?' and '+'.

* Use `egrep`
* or use grep in extended grep mode `-E`

Example:

	$ egrep "boots?" a_file
	boot
	boots
	$ grep -E "boots?" a_file
	boot
	boots

## fgrep: Fast Grep

Does not use regular expressions, only string litterals.

* Use with `fgrep`
* or use grep in fast grep mode `-F`

Example:

	$ fgrep "broken$" a_file
	broken$tuff
	$ grep -F "broken$" a_file
	broken$tuff

## Options

Line numbers(-n):

	$ grep -n "boo" a_file 
	1:boot
	...

Negative Result(-v): (lines that don't match)
	* with line numbers(-vn)

	$ grep -vn "boo" a_file
	4:machine
	...

Count(-c):

	$ grep -c "boo" a_file
	4

Filenames only (-l):
	
	$ grep -l "boo" *
	a_file

Ignore Case (-i):
	
	$ grep -i "BOO" a_file
	boot
	...

Exact Match (-x):

	$ grep -x "boo" a_file
	$ (nothing is printed because there are no exact matches)

## Links
* <http://www.uccs.edu/~ahitchco/grep/>
* <http://unixhelp.ed.ac.uk/CGI/man-cgi?grep>